
I lost a few weeks worth of files I wanted to upload to this repo. Serves me right for not uploading them daily I guess

---

I was working on indexation

Indexation is like: you have some structure (an indexible object) `x`, and some index `y`, and you combine them via indexation `x(y)=z` which produces another object (probably a structure)

From the very loosest strict perspective, this is equivalent to an associative map like `Variant[Variant] x` with the object being the map, the index and return being `Variant` objects. However, the big idea behind this is that of interpretation and lossy models. Indexation is really interpretation, which is really translation of an object from one semantic space to another semantic space via a function that uses only some of the dimensionality of the object (so the function is lossy)

eg: `'my car'(tire)='27inch road tire'` is indexing the `my car` object with a `tire`[^1]. This isn't too unusual; however, you can theoretically index with *anything*. eg: `'my car'(sandwhich)='glove compartment'` is theoretically valid. After thinking about it for awhile, I determined this is the preferred behavior from a system flexibility perspective[^2]

This is possible because unlike `Variant[Variant]` the information about these maps is compressed and encoded (via correlation) inside individual functions specific to individual indices, so instead of `x(y)=z` its more like `y(x)=z`. In a sense then it is the object `x` that is the index, which retrieves data from a function. And specifically, the reason for this is that the object `x` is probably smaller in terms of data than the database which determines the result of the indexation

It's also valid the other way around, though. If `x` is fine to be heavy, then `x(y)` will pull data from `x`. Compared to `y(x)` which pulls data from `y`, and where `y` is heavier than `x`. Since `x` is assumed to be a moving part in the system it makes sense for it to be lightweight. However, in the case of system architectures with no state copying, and with no global state but only individually stateful modules, then `x` can be heavy because its not going anywhere

---

[^1]: Keep in mind that every object is the extension of objects with similar possible percepts; ie: these objects represent object which have some equivalent dimensionalities, and some different dimensionalities. So `my car` is equivalent to every percept of 'my car', which means it is invariant to realworld geometric transformations; and some color, lighting, shadow, etc changes. What makes the `my car` representation meaningful (which inevitably means correlated within the system and a member of a semantic domain) is that it is invariant to these things and is an extension (a set) of all of the percepts which are equivalent up to that invariance

[^2]: Systems modules should have as few invalid communications as possible. This means modules should have interfaces that accept essentially anything. This is the same mechanism that allows you to imagine something really intangible like data flowing through a computer and draw it as boxes with lines on them on a conveyor belt (or whatever). You come up with *some* solution for the problem via contextualized generative expansion of dred-ed representations between lossy semantic domains (models)
